Release process documentation (#43)
submariner-io/submariner-website: src/content/contributing/release-process/_index.en.md

---
title: "Release process"
date: 2020-03-18T16:03:26+01:00
weight: 10
---

This section explains the necessary steps to make a submariner release.
It is assumed that you are familiar with the submariner project and the various repositories.

# Step 1: create a submariner release

Assuming that you have an existing submariner git directory, the following steps create a release named "Globalnet Overlapping IP support RC0" with version v0.2.0-rc0 based on the master branch.

```bash
cd submariner
git remote add upstream ssh://git@github.com/submariner-io/submariner
git fetch -a -v -t
git checkout remotes/upstream/master -B master
git tag -s -m "Globalnet Overlapping IP support RC0" v0.2.0-rc0
git push upstream v0.2.0-rc0
```

A tagged release should appear [here](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner/tags).

> https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner/tags

A build for v0.2.0-rc0 should start and appear under the "Active branches" section [here](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/submariner/branches).

> https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/submariner/branches

> Verify that the build successfully completes as indicated by a green checkmark at the right. At this point the images tagged with 0.2.0-rc0 will be available [here](https://quay.io/repository/submariner/submariner?tab=tags)..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify that the build successfully completes as indicated by a green checkmark at the right. At this point the images tagged with 0.2.0-rc0 will be available [here](https://quay.io/repository/submariner/submariner?tab=tags).
```

> https://quay.io/repository/submariner/submariner?tab=tags

For this example the build can be found [here](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/submariner/builds/153943761) from all the sub-builds, the one tagged with DEPLOY=true will push the resulting image to quay, as can be seen here: [deployment script](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/submariner/jobs/299505392#L3417)

# Step 2: create a lighthouse release

Assuming that you have an existing lighthouse git directory, run the following steps .

```bash
cd lighthouse
git remote add upstream ssh://git@github.com/submariner-io/lighthouse
git fetch -a -v -t
git checkout remotes/upstream/master -B master
git tag -s -m "Globalnet Overlapping IP support RC0" v0.2.0-rc0
git push upstream v0.2.0-rc0
```

A tagged release should appear [here](https://github.com/submariner-io/lighthouse/tags)

> https://github.com/submariner-io/lighthouse/tags

A build for v0.2.0-rc0 should start and appear under the "Active branches" section [here](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/lighthouse/branches)

> https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/lighthouse/branches

> For this example the build can be found [here](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/lighthouse/builds/153946391).

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Create a submariner-operator release

Assuming you have an existing submariner-operator git directory, run the following steps:

```bash
cd submariner-operator
git remote add upstream ssh://git@github.com/submariner-io/submariner-operator
git fetch -a -v -t
git checkout remotes/upstream/master -B master
git tag -s -m "Globalnet Overlapping IP support RC0" v0.2.0-rc0
git push upstream v0.2.0-rc0
```

A tagged release should appear [here](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner-operator/tags).

> https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner-operator/tags

A build for v0.2.0-rc0 should start and appear under the under the "Active branches" section [here](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/submariner-operator/branches).

> https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/submariner-operator/branches

Verify that the build successfully completes as indicated by a green checkmark at the right.
At this point the images tagged with 0.2.0-rc0 will be available [here](https://quay.io/repository/submariner/submariner-operator?tab=tags).

Finally once that has finished, a 0.2.0-rc0 tag will be available [here](https://quay.io/repository/submariner/submariner-operator?tab=tags).

> 

Author: ```suggestion
Finally once that has finished, a 0.2.0-rc0 tag will be available [here](https://quay.io/repository/submariner/submariner-operator?tab=tags).

```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

Finally once that has finished, a 0.2.0-rc0 tag will be available [here](https://quay.io/repository/submariner/submariner?tab=tags).

> https://quay.io/repository/submariner/submariner?tab=tags

# Step 2: create a lighthouse release

Assuming that you have an existing lighthouse git directory, run the following steps .

```bash
cd lighthouse
git remote add upstream ssh://git@github.com/submariner-io/lighthouse
git fetch -a -v -t
git checkout remotes/upstream/master -B master
git tag -s -m "Globalnet Overlapping IP support RC0" v0.2.0-rc0
git push upstream v0.2.0-rc0
```

A tagged release should appear [here](https://github.com/submariner-io/lighthouse/tags)

> https://github.com/submariner-io/lighthouse/tags

A build for v0.2.0-rc0 should start and appear under the "Active branches" section [here](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/lighthouse/branches)

> https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/lighthouse/branches

For this example the build can be found [here](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/lighthouse/builds/153946391).

> Look under the "Active branches" section for v0.2.0-rc0, and monitor the build.

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "Release process"
date: 2020-03-18T16:03:26+01:00
weight: 10
---

This section explains the necessary steps to make a submariner release.
It is assumed that you are familiar with the submariner project and the various repositories.

# Step 1: create a submariner release

Assuming that you have an existing submariner git directory, the following steps create a release named "Globalnet Overlapping IP support RC0" with version v0.2.0-rc0 based on the master branch.

```bash
cd submariner
git remote add upstream ssh://git@github.com/submariner-io/submariner
git fetch -a -v -t
git checkout remotes/upstream/master -B master
git tag -s -m "Globalnet Overlapping IP support RC0" v0.2.0-rc0
git push upstream v0.2.0-rc0
```

A tagged release should appear [here](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner/tags).

> > https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner/tags

Author: I think this is helpful when looking at the result, because otherwise the real link is hidden and you can't see it . It's for developers and not final users. Just a subjective detail btw ;)

> > https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner/tags

Reviewer: sure

A build for v0.2.0-rc0 should start and appear under the under the "Active branches" section [here](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/submariner/branches).

> > https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/submariner/branches

Author: Same ;)

> Look under the "Active branches" section for v0.2.0-rc0, and monitor the build.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Verify that the build successfully completes as indicated by a green checkmark at the right . At this point the images are pushed to quay.io.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

> https://quay.io/repository/submariner/submariner?tab=tags

```

For this example the build can be found [here](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/submariner/builds/153943761) from all the sub-builds, the one tagged with DEPLOY=true will push the resulting image to quay, as can be seen here: [deployment script](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/submariner/jobs/299505392#L3417)

Finally once that has finished, a 0.2.0-rc0 tag will be available [here](https://quay.io/repository/submariner/submariner?tab=tags).

> > https://quay.io/repository/submariner/submariner?tab=tags

Author: ```suggestion
```

# Step 2: create a lighthouse release

Assuming that you have an existing lighthouse git directory, the following steps create a release named "Globalnet Overlapping IP support RC0" with version v0.2.0-rc0 based on the master branch.

```bash
cd lighthouse
git remote add upstream ssh://git@github.com/submariner-io/lighthouse
git fetch -a -v -t
git checkout remotes/upstream/master -B master
git tag -s -m "Globalnet Overlapping IP support RC0" v0.2.0-rc0
git push upstream v0.2.0-rc0
```

A tagged release should appear [here](https://github.com/submariner-io/lighthouse/tags)

> > https://github.com/submariner-io/lighthouse/tags

Author: Opinion ;) I like the rendered result for being more informative.

A build for v0.2.0-rc0 should start and appear under the "Active branches" section [here](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/lighthouse/branches)

> https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/lighthouse/branches

For this example the build can be found [here](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/lighthouse/builds/153946391).

Look under the "Active branches" section for v0.2.0-rc0, and monitor the build.

> Verify that the build successfully completes as indicated by a green checkmark at the right. At this point the images are pushed to quay.io

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify that the build successfully completes as indicated by a green checkmark at the right. At this point the images tagged with 0.2.0-rc0 will be available on quay.io at:
```

> https://quay.io/repository/submariner/lighthouse-controller?tab=tags
> https://quay.io/repository/submariner/lighthouse-coredns?tab=tags

<!-- TODO: Aswin: the openshift-coredns part -->

# Step 3: update the operator version references and create a release

Once the other builds have finished and you have 0.2.0-rc0 release tags for the submariner and lighthouse projects, you can proceed with changes to the operator.

## Change referenced versions

Edit the operator [versions](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner-operator/edit/master/pkg/versions/versions.go) file and change the project version constants to reference the new release, "0.2.0-rc0".

> > https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner-operator/edit/master/pkg/versions/versions.go

Reviewer: This line can be removed.

Author: Opinion

Create a pull request, wait for the CI job to pass, and get approval/merge. See an example PR [here](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner-operator/pull/276)

## Create a submariner-operator release

Assuming you have an existing submariner-operator git directory, run the following steps:

```bash
cd submariner-operator
git remote add upstream ssh://git@github.com/submariner-io/submariner-operator
git fetch -a -v -t
git checkout remotes/upstream/master -B master
git tag -s -m "Globalnet Overlapping IP support RC0" v0.2.0-rc0
git push upstream v0.2.0-rc0
```

A tagged release should appear [here](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner-operator/tags).

> > https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner-operator/tags

Reviewer: This line can be removed.

Author: Same ;)

A build for v0.2.0-rc0 should start and appear under the under the "Active branches" section [here](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/submariner-operator/branches).

> > https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/submariner-operator/branches

Reviewer: This line can be removed.

Author: Same

> Look under the "Active branches" section for v0.2.0-rc0 , and monitor the build.

Reviewer: This line can be removed.

> Look under the "Active branches" section for v0.2.0-rc0 , and monitor the build.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Verify that the build successfully completes as indicated by a green checkmark at the right.

> At this point the images are pushed to quay.io.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point the images tagged with 0.2.0-rc0 will be available [here](https://quay.io/repository/submariner/submariner-operator?tab=tags).
```

Finally once that has finished, a 0.2.0-rc0 tag will be available [here](https://quay.io/repository/submariner/submariner-operator?tab=tags).

> > https://quay.io/repository/submariner/submariner-operator?tab=tags

Reviewer: L114-116 can be removed.

Author: Opinion, I really prefer how it looks with this, it servers as visual reference, and provides the ability to see the URL easily without need to click

Reviewer: OK we can leave the link but L110 is redundant with L108.

Author: True

Author: Done

## Create the subctl binaries release

```bash
cd submariner-operator
git fetch -a -v -t
git checkout v0.2.0-rc0
rm bin/subctl*
make build-cross
ls -la bin/subctl*
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, you should see subctl binaries generated and listed for the various platforms under bin.
```

> Go to https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner-operator/tags , and create a release for the v0.2.0-rc0 tag, upload the generated binaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner-operator/tags, find the tag for v0.2.0-rc0 and select "Edit release" to the right. Then upload the generated subctl binaries.
```

> If it's a pre-release (-rc) mark the checkbox "This is a pre-release"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this is a pre-release, mark the checkbox "This is a pre-release".
```

Author: Technically we wouldn't need the ", " after pre-release, right? or is it necessary? (ignorance asking here)

---
title: "Release process"
date: 2020-03-18T16:03:26+01:00
weight: 10
---

In this section of the documentation we explain the necessary steps to make a submariner release,
it's assumed that you are familiar with the submariner project and the different repositories.

> # Step 1: release submariner (core)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Step 1: create a submariner release
```

Assuming that you have an existing submariner git directory, and that you are making a release based in master.

```bash
cd submariner
git remote add upstream ssh://git@github.com/submariner-io/submariner
git fetch -a -v -t
git checkout remotes/upstream/master -B master
git tag -s -m "Globalnet Overlapping IP support RC0" v0.2.0-rc0
git push upstream v0.2.0-rc0
```

> At this point the release should appear here, a github release can be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A tagged release should appear [here](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner/tags).
```

> https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner/tags

> A build should start:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A build for v0.2.0-rc0 should start and appear under the under the "Active branches" section [here](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/submariner/branches).
```

> https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/submariner/branches

Look under the "Active branches" section for v0.2.0-rc0 , and monitor that the build

> completes successfully, specially the Deploy section, where the images are pushed to quay.io, those should eventually appear here after the job has finished:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify that the build successfully completes as indicated by a green checkmark at the right . At this point the images are pushed to quay.io.
```
I took out the part about how the images should appear in the Deploy section. Looking at the links, I don't see a Deploy section.

Author: There should be at the end, I will take the suggestion any way as it's not super important.

Reviewer: > There should be at the end

You mean a Deploy section? At the very end where? I look at https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/submariner/branches and don't see such a section. Am I missing something?

> For this example the build can be found [here](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/submariner/builds/153943761) from all the sub-builds, the one tagged with DEPLOY=true will push the resulting image to quay, as can be seen here: [deployment script](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/submariner/jobs/299505392#L3417)

Reviewer: I'm not sure this detail adds any value and may be confusing. Also wouldn't the specific links eventually become stale/non-existent?

Author: Yeah, I also thought of that. But it'd keep it for now. Some people need to "touch and see" stuff closely to understand better, but it's likely the links will expire, sadly.

Author: Not sure if you are trying, but you are being   ;-) (:heart:) We can always replace that later with a better version or screenshots or enhance it, but we need to deliver something to start with.

Reviewer: Well I'm trying to tell you that as a first-time reader w/o having performed a release that this section, at least as presented, is a bit confusing and doesn't make sense. It makes sense to you b/c you know how everything works and have done it many times. I'd prefer to just remove it and possibly add an enhanced version later if needed based on feedback rather than leave it in and possibly confuse readers. But if you don't want to take my feedback on this then, fine, leave it.

Author: I will switch that paragraph for screenshots on a second iteration, let me open a bug:

https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner-website/issues/46

I promise I will handle it, but I want to deliver something for 0.2.0

> Finally once that has finished, a 0.2.0-rc0 tag will be available here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally once that has finished, a 0.2.0-rc0 tag will be available [here](https://quay.io/repository/submariner/submariner?tab=tags).
```

> https://quay.io/repository/submariner/submariner?tab=tags

> # Step 2: release lighthouse

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Step 2: create a lighthouse release
```

Assuming that you have an existing lighthouse git directory, and that you are making a release based in master.

```bash
cd lighthouse
git remote add upstream ssh://git@github.com/submariner-io/lighthouse
git fetch -a -v -t
git checkout remotes/upstream/master -B master
git tag -s -m "Globalnet Overlapping IP support RC0" v0.2.0-rc0
git push upstream v0.2.0-rc0
```

At this point the release should appear here, a github release can be created.

> https://github.com/submariner-io/lighthouse/tags

A build should start:

> https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/lighthouse/branches

For this example the build can be found [here](https://travis-ci.com/github/submariner-io/lighthouse/builds/153946391).

Look under the "Active branches" section for v0.2.0-rc0 , and monitor that the build
completes successfully, specially the Deploy section, where the images are pushed to quay.io, those should eventually appear here after the job has finished:

> https://quay.io/repository/submariner/lighthouse-controller?tab=tags

> > https://quay.io/repository/submariner/lighthouse-coredns?tab=tags

Reviewer: The comments in the previous section also apply here.

Author: I will apply them locally once I download the updated version with your changes.

> # Step 3: update operator version references, and release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Step 3: update the operator version references and create a release
```

> Once the other builds have finished and you have image tags 0.2.0-rc0 on submariner and ligthouse repos, you can proceed with changes to the operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the other builds have finished and you have 0.2.0-rc0 release tags for the submariner and lighthouse projects, you can proceed with changes to the operator.
```

> ## Reference versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Change referenced versions
```

> Edit the reference versions from the right operator/subctl branch:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit the operator [versions](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner-operator/edit/master/pkg/versions/versions.go) file and change the project version constants to reference the new release, "0.2.0-rc0".
```

> https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner-operator/edit/master/pkg/versions/versions.go

> and send a PR, wait for CI to pass, and get approval/merge. See an example PR here: [0.2.0-rc0-release-pr](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner-operator/pull/276)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a pull request, wait for the CI job to pass, and get approval/merge. See an example PR [here](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner-operator/pull/276)
```

> ## Tag the operator repository (once the previous PR is merged)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a submariner-operator release
```

> Assuming that you have an existing lighthouse git directory, and that you are making a release based in master.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming you have an existing submariner-operator git directory, run the following steps:
```
